
**D.2 Files**
================== 


**[1]** File Types 
--------------------------------------------------------------------- 

.. raw:: html

    <hr>

**rivt file**

*rivt files* are written by the author. Each *rivt file* has a prefix that
specifies the division label and subdivision number of the published *doc*.
*rivt reports* are assembled using *doc numbers* that organize the report into
divisions and subdivisions. The d*subdivision* name is taken from the
name that follows the *doc number*. It may be overridden in the *API
Meta function*. *Division* names are specified in the :term:`report script`.


The *doc number* prefix includes a single digit capital alphanumeric division
label *D*, followed by a two digit subdivision number *ss*. For example:

.. code-block:: bash
    
    [rvDss-]file-name.py
    
    rvC02-Beam-Loads.py

where the default doc name is "Beam Loads" in subdivision 2 of division C.
Hyphens are stripped from file name.

.. topic:: Note: 

    The following files are read and written by *rivtlib* when processing a 
    *rivt file*.  Files are labeled by origin and folder. 

    **origin**: author input

    **folder**: *rivt-report-folder-name* 

    Refer to :doc:`markup <rvC01-markup>` for *command* details. 

**Run file**

A *run file* is a shell or command script executed using the | RUN |
command.

    **origin**: author input

    **folder**: *src/*  - or a user created subfolder of /src

    **API function**:  *rv.R*

**Insert file**

An *insert file* is an image, table or text file executed using 
the | IMAGE | , | TABLE | , or | TEXT | command.

    **origin**: author input

    **folder**: *src/* - or a user created subfolder of /src

    **API function**:  *rv.I*

**Value file**

A *value file* is a *csv* file that defines variable values. It is imported
using the \| VALUE \| command. Values defined by equations and a _[[VALUES]]
block are written to a file with the name composed of the *doc* and *section*
number. The file may be read by other *rivt files*.

    Read

    **origin**: author input
    
    **folder**: *src/Values*  -  or a user created subfolder of /src
    
    **API function**:  *rv.V* 

    Write

    **origin**: program output
    
    **folder**: *src/Values*
    
    **API function**:  *rv.V* 


**Tool file**

*Tool files* can be executed by | PYTHON | , | HTML | , | RST | 
or | LATEX | commands. They may be used for analysis and generation of text, 
tables, images and other formatted content.  Executing a tool file may:

- define functions and classes for use in the *rivt file*
- generate images, tables and text for inclusion in the *doc*
- insert markup text into the *doc*

    Read
    
    **origin**: author input
    
    **folder**: *src/Tools*  or a user created subfolder of /src
    
    **API function**:  *rv.T*

    Write
    
    **origin**: program output
    
    **folder**: *src/Tools* 
    
    **API function**:  *rv.T*

**Doc file**

Each *rivt file* outputs a *doc file* with the same *doc name and number* and
the selected *doc type* suffix. *Doc* files are written to the *publish folder*
as text, PDF or HTML files using | PUBLISH | command.

PDF files may be prepended or appended to the *doc* using the | APPEND |
command.

    **origin**: program output
    
    **folder**: *src/* - or a user created subfolder of /src
    
    **API function**:  *rv.D* 

**Report file**

A *report file* is generated by the Python *report script* and is written to
the designated *publish subfolder*. The *report file name* is taken from the
*report folder name* unless specified in the *report script*.

    **origin**: program output
    
    **folder**: */publish/* subfolder

**Report script**

The *report script* is a Python file that assembles the *report*. It specifies
the *docs* that should be included, whether the *rivt files* should be
re-executed and other format settings.

    **origin**: author input
    
    **folder**: */publish*

**Public rivt file**

    **origin**: program output
    
    **folder**: */public*

A public rivt file is a copy of the *rivt file* that includes all of the
sections marked as *public* in the *header*. It has the same name as the *rivt
file* with an added hyphen between "rv" and the docnumber e.g.
*rv-Dss-filename.py*

**Log file**


*Log files* are written to the *log folder*. They include: 

- a backup of the rivt file
- a file listing the execution steps when processing the *rivt file* 
- a file listing each API function call with the header.

    **origin**: program output
    
    **folder**: */logs* 


**[2]** Folders
--------------------------------------------------------------------- 

.. raw:: html

    <hr>

The *rivt report folder* organizes *outputs*, *public rivt files*, *sources*,
and *docs and reports*. 

.. topic:: Note:

    When a *rivt file* is processed, required folders are created if missing.


**Folder Key**

- Explicit names and prefixes are shown in brackets [ ]. 
- Author files read by rivtlib are marked with a single vertical bar ( | ).  
- Files written by rivtlib are marked with double vertical bars ( || ).

**Top Level Folders**

.. code-block:: bash

    [rivt]-Report-Label/            Report Folder Name
        ├── [rv101-]filename1.py        | rivt file
        ├── [rv102-]filename2.py        | rivt file
        ├── [rv201-]filename3.py        | rivt file
        ├── [rv202-]filename4.py        | rivt file 

        ...

        ├── [out]/                      || output folder
        ├── [public]/                   || public rivt file folder
        ├── [publish]/                  || reports folder
        ├── [src]/                      |  doc source folder
        └── README.txt                  || searchable text report 

The full report folder structure is :ref:`here. <report folders>`

.. raw:: html

    <p id="api">&lt;i&gt;</p>

**[3]** Reports
----------------------------------------------------------

.. raw:: html

    <hr>

.. _report-describe:

A :term:`report` is assembled from mutliple *docs* organized by division and
subdivsion numbers. Each *doc* is a subdivision of a *report*. A typical workflow
for writing *reports* is to start with a similar *report* and edit the *rivt
files* and *report script* that produces the *report*.

The Python *report script* includes settings that specify assembly parameters
and override defaults. These include:

- *Docs* to be included in the report
- Division names
- recompiling *docs*
- report cover page and title

provides the option to either regenerate all *docs* or to
assemble the report from previously generated *docs*.  Most aspects of
the *report* appearance are determined at when generating *docs*.

An example script is shown below.

.. code-block:: python

    #! python

    from rivtlib.rvreport import *  # noqa: F403

    """ generate a rivt report

    Sample report generating and config file. 
    
    Run this Python file to generate a rivt report. The report generating file
    must located in /publish/subfolder where subfolder is the doc type. The
    report output file name is the report title. It is written to the same
    folder as the report script. Duplicate report file names are incremented.

    A flag determines whether the report is assembled from existing doc files
    or whether docs are regenerated prior to assembly. If a rivt or doc file is
    specified for inclusion and not found a warning is given but the report is
    still assembled.

    A rivt report is a compilation of rivt docs organized into divisions and
    subdivisions. rivt doc numbers define the organization. Default titles for
    subdivisions are generated by stripping the doc number from the file name
    and replacing hyphens with spaces. The default titles may be overridden in
    rv.M for each rivt file.
    
    See src/styles/rivt.ini for additional settings

    """
    # ==================================
    # report type
    # ==================================
    rptype = "pdf"  # report type [html; pdf; pdftex; text]
    rvrun = False  # regenerate docs [True; False]

    # ==================================
    # report cover settings
    # ==================================
    # cover pages are located in /src
    rptitle = "Solar Canopy Calculations"
    rpsubtitle = "Larkspur, Ca"
    rpauthor = "rhh"
    rpdate = "<datetime>"
    rptoc = True  # add table of contents, "" to omit
    rpcover = "/publish/cover1.pdf"  # cover page, "" to omit

    # ==================================
    # include docs 
    # ==================================
    # include these divisions in report
    divlist = [[dv01, "Codes and Loads"],
               [dv02, "Frame"],
               [dv03, "Foundation"]] 
    # include these docs in report
    # doc label is for reference only, may be empty string
    doclist = [[rv101,"Codes"],
               [rv102,"Loads"],
               [rv201,"Frame"],
               [rv202,"Solar"],
               [rv301,"Foundation"],
               [rv302,"Walls"]]    
    
    genreport()  # noqa: F405

